
Today made me very excited for the possibilities created by developing in Javascript. I already knew I would learn a lot more about coding, but today really drove home the excitement for me. While I've already touched on many of the concepts we covered today, such as arrays, objects, and concatenation, I hadn't really explored the way they work in Javascript specifically.
The first thing that sort of stretched my brain was the ability to nest arrays and objects within each other. This isn't something that would really need to be done with the type of statistical data I've commonly used, so it isn't something I've really thought about. I instantly saw the potential for nesting lists of objects of lists of objects. What didn't come so naturally is the semantics of how it works. Thank goodness we have notes because I get the feeling I'll be doing a lot of this in projects to come.
Concatenation is something that I have used almost daily with data for the past 6 or so years. It's extremely useful to be able to take data at it's smallest form and then concatenate it together for analysis or presentation purposes. That being said, even though the word and the application is the same in Javascript, the functionality is entirely different. Concatenation using "+=" in Javascript is pretty powerful. It took some time, questions, and reading, for me to feel like I understand what it is doing to the code and why. What I realized is that it can be a great way to update variables as you go, without having to preplan every tiny element in advance. This is not the way I've ever looked at concatenation before, but thinking about it now I realize it actually does this for data in tables as well. Mind blown.
After class I read up on the notes posted in our dashboard and came across descriptions of NodeJS. I must admit that I don't fully grasp exactly how NodeJS works and can exist outside of a browser. The potential is rather exciting though. I plan to read more about it when I'm not working on assignments.

One thing I am loving about Javascript in general is that I feel like the possibilities are only limited by the amount of information I can get my brain to retain. The way this class is built where each new topic builds off of the last reminds me of Saxon math which is pretty great. I feel like I start off knowing at least something about where to start and then it just expands from there.
